audio/spotify/README.md, before:

# gst-plugins-spotify

This is a [GStreamer](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/) plugin to read content from
[Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/).

Make sure that your application follows [Spotify's design guidelines](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/general/design-and-branding/)
to respect their legal/licensing restrictions.

## Spotify Credentials

This plugin requires a [Spotify Premium](https://www.spotify.com/premium/) account.
If your account is linked with Facebook, you'll need to setup
a [device username and password](https://www.spotify.com/us/account/set-device-password/).

Those username and password are then set using the `username` and `password` properties.

You may also want to cache credentials and downloaded files, see the `cache-` properties on the element.

## spotifyaudiosrc

The `spotifyaudiosrc` element can be used to play a song from Spotify using its [Spotify URI](https://community.spotify.com/t5/FAQs/What-s-a-Spotify-URI/ta-p/919201).

```
gst-launch-1.0 spotifyaudiosrc username=$USERNAME password=$PASSWORD track=spotify:track:3i3P1mGpV9eRlfKccjDjwi ! oggdemux ! vorbisdec ! audioconvert ! autoaudiosink
```

The element also implements an URI handler which accepts credentials and cache settings as URI parameters:

```console
gst-launch-1.0 playbin3 uri=spotify:track:3i3P1mGpV9eRlfKccjDjwi?username=$USERNAME\&password=$PASSWORD\&cache-credentials=cache\&cache-files=cache
```

Commit message:

spotify: replace username/password auth with access token.
Part-of: <https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/gstreamer/gst-plugins-rs/-/merge_requests/1801>

audio/spotify/README.md, after:

# gst-plugins-spotify

This is a [GStreamer](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/) plugin to read content from
[Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/).

Make sure that your application follows [Spotify's design guidelines](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/general/design-and-branding/)
to respect their legal/licensing restrictions.

## Spotify Credentials

This plugin requires a [Spotify Premium](https://www.spotify.com/premium/) account.

Provide a Spotify access token with 'streaming' scope using the `access-token` property. Such a token can be obtained by completing
[Spotify's OAuth flow](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/concepts/authorization) or using the facility on their
[Web SDK getting started guide](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-playback-sdk/tutorials/getting-started).
A token can also be obtained using [librespot-oauth](https://github.com/librespot-org/librespot/blob/dev/oauth/examples/oauth.rs):

```console
cargo install librespot-oauth --example oauth && oauth
```

Note, Spotify access tokens are only valid for 1 hour and must be [refreshed](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/refreshing-tokens)
for usage beyond that.

It is therefore advisable to also use the `cache-credentials` property. On first usage, your access token is exchanged for a reusable credentials blob and
stored at the location specified by this property. Once obtained, that credentials blob is used for login and any provided `access-token` is ignored.
Unlike Spotify access tokens, the user's credentials blob does not expire. Avoiding handling token refresh greatly simplifies plugin usage.
If you do not set `cache-credentials`, you must manage refreshing your Spotify access token so it's valid for login when the element starts.

You may also want to cache downloaded files, see the `cache-files` property.

## spotifyaudiosrc

The `spotifyaudiosrc` element can be used to play a song from Spotify using its [Spotify URI](https://community.spotify.com/t5/FAQs/What-s-a-Spotify-URI/ta-p/919201).

```
gst-launch-1.0 spotifyaudiosrc access-token=$ACCESS_TOKEN track=spotify:track:3i3P1mGpV9eRlfKccjDjwi ! oggdemux ! vorbisdec ! audioconvert ! autoaudiosink
```

The element also implements an URI handler which accepts credentials and cache settings as URI parameters:

```console
gst-launch-1.0 playbin3 uri=spotify:track:3i3P1mGpV9eRlfKccjDjwi?access-token=$ACCESS_TOKEN\&cache-credentials=cache\&cache-files=cache
```
